
learn toghether




we speak the same language

fear for plagiarism
just when education means retention of concepts
just when education excludes all available sources and resources
just when education does not offer answers to important questions




My reality   <====>   myself



           sources




education is not indoctrination
education is not the provision of sources
education is not mechanical training
education is not mimetic training
education is not classical conditioning



education is good news



TheBestSchools.org
Explore Best Schools
Degrees
Careers
Resources
About
Blog
Find Programs
Synchronous vs. Asynchronous Classes: What’s the Difference?

by Doug Wintemute
September 7, 2021 • 4 min read
What Is Synchronous Learning? What Is Asynchronous Learning? Which Class Style is Right for You? FAQs
Read about the pros and cons of synchronous vs. asynchronous online classes to determine which delivery method best suits your life as a student.


SHARE ON SOCIAL
Synchronous vs. Asynchronous Classes: What’s the Difference?
Are you ready to discover your college program?
Advertisement
I WANT MY

Select a degree
IN

Select a category
FOCUSING ON

Select a subject
SEARCH PROGRAMS
Synchronous classes run in real time, with students and instructors attending together from different locations. Asynchronous classes run on a more relaxed schedule, with students accessing class materials during different hours and from different locations.


Explore careers with positive outlooks
With Lantern, a career and education platform, you can browse and filter careers with factors important to you, such as fields projected to have increasing job placement opportunities.

Browse careers
Online classes fall into two categories — synchronous and asynchronous — each of which aligns with different students' interests, personalities, and learning styles. This page explores these two types of online delivery, breaking down their advantages and disadvantages to help students find the best match for them.

What Is the Difference Between Synchronous and Asynchronous Classes?
Online learning allows people to study in new and exciting ways, but the best type of online learning comes down to personal preference. Synchronous virtual classrooms operate much like traditional classrooms, with set study schedules and live discussions. Asynchronous classrooms look a little different, as students digest the instruction and communicate with each other on their own time.

—
What Is Synchronous Learning?
Synchronous learning allows students to engage with class materials at the same time as their peers as long as they can connect to the internet. This delivery type provides learners with a structured and immersive learning environment without the worry and stress of travel.

Synchronous classrooms use web and videoconferencing technologies — like Google Meet, Google Hangouts, or Zoom — to create learning spaces. Teachers may choose synchronous delivery over asynchronous formats because the format allows a more conversational approach, especially if the material requires instant feedback and discussion.

What Is an Example of Synchronous Learning?
A common type of synchronous classroom includes a live-streamed lecture that students attend virtually. Teachers or guest lecturers stream their presentations, and students can ask questions via webcams, microphones, and chat or message boards.

For more classroom engagement, teachers can incorporate videoconferenced discussion groups. They can divide students into smaller groups with breakout rooms, facilitating direct discussion.

What Is Synchronous Online Class Like?
Synchronous online classes run similar to traditional classes, with attendance, lectures, and discussion periods. Students typically attend and participate via webcam or livestream forum and may move into smaller virtual rooms for group work or a teacher's office hours. Instructors can physically demonstrate specific problems or processes and ask questions as they go.

Synchronous classrooms incorporate interactive components, like chat rooms, polls, surveys, and shared documents. Online classrooms may not provide the same opportunities for visibility as in-person classes, but students can stand out by showing themselves online and participating thoughtfully while following synchronous classroom netiquette.

Pros and Cons of Taking a Synchronous Class
This data highlights common benefits and drawbacks of synchronous classrooms.

Pros
check-circle icon
Greater engagement
check-circle icon
Immediate responses
check-circle icon
Dynamic learning opportunities
check-circle icon
Direct communication with teachers
check-circle icon
More structure in classrooms
Cons
x-circle icon
Set schedules
x-circle icon
Requires strong internet connection
x-circle icon
Requires webcam and mic
x-circle icon
Can be hard to speak up
x-circle icon
Needs a quiet space to log on

—
What Is Asynchronous Learning?
Asynchronous classes offer learners the flexibility to study in a self-paced manner. While most asynchronous classes still have submission deadlines, students can connect with materials, peers, and instructors on their own schedules, often over an extended period of time. Teachers may prescribe an order of operations for the materials, but learners can often choose how much or how little time they spend in each area.

Asynchronous online classrooms use forums and message boards to keep a running dialogue between participants. They also incorporate self-guided lessons, workshops, and shared files. Many students find asynchronous environments more comfortable for certain types of learning, though participation expectations may actually be higher in this format than in others.

What Is an Example of Asynchronous Learning?
Asynchronous classrooms often feature prerecorded lectures that students watch independently. Teachers post video or audio files and lecture notes online for learners, and then post quizzes on




 the material to ensure students followed up with watching or listening to it.

Another component of asynchronous learning is the discussion board. In this space, teachers can post discussion prompts, and students can ask questions and interact with their peers. This provides learners with an interactive experience and space for social learning.

What Is Asynchronous Online Class Like?
In asynchronous online classes, students can access their studies on their own schedules. Teachers may mark attendance in different ways, such as by tracking who watched the lecture or posting comprehension quizzes. More interactive lessons can require learners to answer polls or click buttons, which also tells the instructor who has engaged with the content.

An asynchronous class allows learners to digest material in different ways: Students can dedicate more time to challenging content and breeze through lighter content. Since teachers cannot evaluate a student's readiness in person, online participation plays a large role in asynchronous classrooms. This delivery mode also requires a great deal of self-motivation and proactiveness, especially if a student is having trouble with a topic.

Pros and Cons of Taking an Asynchronous Class
Asynchronous learning environments differ greatly from traditional classrooms. Below are a few pros and cons of the format.

Pros
check-circle icon
Schedule flexibility
check-circle icon
Individually dictated pace
check-circle icon
More democratic
check-circle icon
More accessible
check-circle icon
More time with material
Cons
x-circle icon
Less immersive
x-circle icon
Challenges with procrastination
x-circle icon
Disconnected social environment
x-circle icon
Independent learning difficulties
x-circle icon
More distractions
—
Which Class Style is Right for You?
Which is the right class style depends entirely on the individual learner. Prospective students should first consider their schedules, as those who work unconventional hours — like military service people, ROTC cadets, or night-shift workers — might find asynchronous classes more accomodating. Students with unorthodox sleep schedules may find value in asynchronous learning as well, whereas learners with poor time management skills might not.

Aspiring online students should carefully consider their own learning style and personality type. Where social learners might benefit from synchronous environments, solitary students might prefer asynchronous ones. Moreover, extroverted personalities can thrive in synchronous classes, while introverted personalities can succeed in asynchronous courses.

Finally, online learners should consider their field of interest. Certain majors or classes may work better in synchronous or hybrid environments. If students wish to fast-track their training, asynchronous classes might be best. For those looking for a more immersive college experience, synchronous training might work better.

Frequently Asked Questions
Collapse All Expand All
Are Asynchronous Classes Good?
For many students, an asynchronous class provides flexibility and accessibility. Working professionals and busy students can complete their studies without disrupting their schedules.

What Are the Advantages of Asynchronous Learning?
Which Is Better: Synchronous or Asynchronous Learning?
Portrait of Doug Wintemute
Doug Wintemute
Doug Wintemute is a Toronto-based freelance writer with professional writing interests in higher learning and entertainment. He completed his BA and MA in English at York University, graduating summa cum laude and earning academic merit, research, and writing awards at both levels. Since 2014, he has contributed content and editorial work for award-winning digital trade publications, global SEO copywriting projects, and hugely popular online brands. He can be contacted through LinkedIn.

Header Image Credit: blackCAT | Getty Images

Learn more, do more.
More topic-relevant resources to expand your knowledge.
How to Stand Out in an Online Class
How to Stand Out in an Online Class
March 25, 2021 | Sarah Eilefson

Here are the top ways to stand out in your online classes, according to an actual professor. From leveraging the interactive functions to participating in online discussions, these strategies will get you noticed.
How to Get Better Sleep in College
How to Get Better Sleep in College
June 9, 2021 | Evan Thompson

It's no secret that college students struggle with sleep. But too much lack of sleep can hurt your academic performance. Sleep specialists have some tips for how to get better sleep in college.
How to Choose an Online Degree Program
How to Choose an Online Degree Program
September 1, 2021 | Genevieve Carlton

There are tons of highly ranked online degree programs. But what makes a good one? We break down what to look for in an online degree program.
Popular with our students.
Highly informative resources to keep your education journey on track.

The Best Online Colleges and Universities of 2021
TBS Staff
August 11, 2021
The Best Online Colleges and Universities of 2021
Learn about the best online colleges and universities that allow you to earn your degree from anywhere.
August 31, 2021    TBS Staff

The Best Online Degrees of 2021
September 7, 2021    TBS Staff

Best Colleges By State
Take the next step toward your future with online learning.
Discover schools with the programs and courses you’re interested in, and start learning today.

ADVERTISEMENT
I WANT MY
Select a degree
IN
Select a category
FOCUSING ON
Select a subject
FIND YOUR PROGRAM
woman in an office
Footer
RANKINGS
By State
By Degree
By College
All
DEGREES
Associate
Bachelor's
Master's
Doctorate
CAREERS
Associate Degree Careers
Social Work
Criminal Justice
Careers for the Future
All
RESOURCES
Writing a Research Paper
Applying to College
ACT Prep
SAT Prep
All
TheBestSchools.org
© 2021 TheBestSchools.org, a Red Ventures Company
About
Contact
Advertise With Us
Site Map
Advertiser Disclosure
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings





from being baylor
https://mediaspace.baylor.edu/media/Being+Baylor+Online/0_6h8pbx9z

Hello. I'm Dr. Lane scales, a faculty member in social work at Baylor University. I've been teaching at Baylor for over 20 years and in recent years my classes have been primarily online. Some of you are like me, you've been teaching at Baylor and person most of your career that have made a transition to teaching online. Some of you may be new to Baylor and are just learning about who we are and what we believe. This session that we call being baler will serve either as a reminder to you or maybe an introduction to two things that we hold dear at Baylor. Our commitment to faith and to our carrying as teachers. We're guided at Baylor by the Academy for teaching and learning and the Institute for faith and learning, who support us as faculty, as we develop, as we learn better and better ways of embodying these Beglar distinctive. I've been richly blessed in my two decades participation with the ETL and IFF. And I believe you will be enriched by the material that we've assembled here. We began with a word from Doctrine Lenore, right? Director of the ITIL. Hello. I'm Lenore, right? Director of failures Academy for teaching and learning and associate professor of philosophy in the Honors College. Baylor has rightly proclaimed a tradition of excellence in education since 1845. The founding of the Academy for teaching and learning, the ATL in 2008, has bolstered this tradition of educational excellence. University leaders recognize that growing numbers of faculty, greater investments in research and new instructional paradigms can pal Baylor to formalize support for faculty to ensure the continuation of transformational teaching, teaching more significant learning, moral development, and spiritual growth. Failure is also noun and rightly so for its caring community, faculty care deeply about students. And Baylor hires faculty who express authentic commitments to student learning and development. How do faculty communicate our cure for students when instruction is remote or online? Simply poet, we act with intention. We plan for, we foster community, we identify and adopt practices that create carrying virtual communities. The ATL teaching guide on socialization and online learning is a great resource in this regard. I believes that whether Baylor courses, our in-person, remote or fully online, great teaching, significant learning, and deep care for Students will endure. Why do I believe this? I believe Baylor is loyal to its core values, including a community of learning. But my fade them beggars can net Mehta community is rooted in something that is both more elusive and more palpable. That goodwill Baylor line generations at Baylor students and teachers, I've marched together in and out of classrooms physical and virtual since 1845. Together the students and teachers have forged personal relationships that you night mailers commitment to teaching excellence with practices, human care and concern. We love one another as Jesus has taught us to love. The ATL supports and inspires failures, flourishing, and caring community of learning. Wherever learning happens, teaching and learning are bound up with love and love for neighbour, and care for one another. I find the words of Dr. Right so inspiring. We can imagine ourselves connected through the decades to the Baylor teachers who've gone before us who were intentional about showing care to their students, who inspired learners to ask important questions of faith. As Dr. Rice says, this requires an intentionality about our relationships. In this next segment, Dr. Kara Miller, founder of inquiry partners, and a former student at Baylor, talks with us about the importance of relationships within the online environment. Dr. Miller has been teaching online with Harvard University and advises educators about their online programs. Listen as she talks about the faculty role and high-quality online education. When does start with, I'm just asking you from what you've observed, what makes online education high-quality In your view? So the number one thing that makes hike high-quality makes for high-quality online education is that the relationship between the learner and the teacher is attended to carefully. So the interaction between the facilitator, moderator or the professor of the course and the way that the students engage with that person or that team of persons is the first measure of quality in online education that influence the learning outcomes. It influences engage levels of engagement, and it ultimately influences the quality of that exchange. Overall. It also has positive correlations in, through re-enroll meant or students who continue in the programming. Every time they have a professor or a teaching team that well engaged with them and they're learning rhythm and style. They end up encouraged to continue taking courses in the program. So you're sor
